The Joe Rogan experience. So let's, let's go to that then. Mm-hmm <affirmative>,
since this is
the United States has a very strange situation with native Americans where
native Americans have reservations and on those reservations,
they have sovereignty. They can, they have different rules,
they can do what they want. It's very strange.
It's like there's nations inside of our nation. Mm-hmm <affirmative> like,
how do you feel about that?
Uh, so it's a system that's been imposed by.
Maybe the best way to start is kind of start with the beginning. Okay.
Like how did, how did, how did we get to where we are today there? Uh,
and there's a lot of information. Yeah.
And so you gotta stop me if I start getting too carried away. All right.
No worry. We.
Have plenty of time. Okay. And a lot of interest. Okay. So don't.
Worry about that.
So there are three Supreme court cases that happened in the 18 hundreds,
and there was a justice named John Marshall,
who was actually buying Indian land from, from us,
the us government through us grants. And so he was interested,
he was an interested party, uh, but he was making decisions that, um,
that set forward the kind of watershed principles that continue
effect who, uh, native Americans and Indian nation governments are.
And so those three cases, the first one was called Johnson V Macintosh.
And it was in 1823 and it didn't involve any Indians.
It was a non-Indians coming to court to try to determine who owned a piece of
land in Indiana. And, um,
there was one guy Johnson who was a plaintiff who had purchased the land
directly from the pian Shaw Indians, who are related to the Miami tribe today.
And, uh,
then the defendant was Macintosh and he purchased land from the us
government. And so the case of course, was who had the proper rights.
And through that case, uh, through, uh,
the narrative that John that justice Marshall created,
uh, he, uh, brought forward, uh,
an a piece of international law that affects us today.
And that's the doctrine of discovery.
Have you ever heard of the doctrine of discovery? So that's that's
any Christian civilized, European nation has a right to conquer,
uh, indigenous hen peoples.
So this was the principle that this case was based on,
and it's set forward this weird, uh, relationship,
the tribes and the us government have today. Um, so if the us,
if the Christian European peoples had the rights to,
um, take land away from tribes, because they were an inferior race,
which is this, this is language from the case, their inferior race,
they're savages, they're unable to govern themselves. Um,
and they only have a right of occupancy.
So that was the first of three cases that justice Marshall decided.
And of course he was an interest party in the whole thing because he had
purchased land from the United States and he wanted to make sure his land was
secure. Um, the second case was Cherokee nation B, Georgia.
And this was the time during the Indian removal act that Andrew Jackson had
gotten through Congress to remove the Eastern Indians west of the Mississippi
river into Indian T, which is of course now Oklahoma, Kansas, Texas area.
And, um, and again,
this was a case that actually, uh,
the Cherokee nation tried to bring before the Supreme court and before
the Supreme court could even make a decision, um, on,
and I just realized, I didn't even tell you the facts of the case. So, um, uh,
there was I'm, I'm getting ahead of myself. I apologize. No worries. Um,
this is, this is, uh, incredible experience to be here.
So I'm a little bit nervous. Um,
so in Cherokee nation versus Georgia, um, uh,
Georgia was trying to assert its, um,
laws over the Cherokee nation.
And so the Cherokee nation brought this case before the Supreme court to say,
you know, the, the, this,
the state does not have any right to assert any of its laws against us.
And what justice Marshall has has said, well,
you're not a foreign nation, so you can't bring a case before the Supreme court,
um, and determine that tribes were a pseudo sovereign nation,
that they were still under, uh, Tudo lids. And, uh,
they needed to be civilized, uh, again, the same kind of inferior,
uh, uh, Savage language in this case. Um, and,
um, held that the federal government had plenary power over, um,
uh, tribal affairs. Um,
and that the Cherokee nation couldn't bring this case to court.
What ended up happening is some missionaries who were serving the Cherokee
nation actually, um, developed a case and, um,
violated Georgia laws. Um,
so they could bring a case before the Supreme court.
And that case was called Wooster V Georgia.
And I think that was about 18 32, 18 31.
And in that case, um,
it was ruled that the United States, uh,
had a guardian and ward type relationship with tribes.
And so we were the wards, uh,
they were our guardian and that set up this weird dynamic
that still exists today,
the Supreme courts and other case other courts site,
um, in,
in decisions today to basic take away more and more rights.
So,
so that was that's the watershed basis for this weird relationship that we
have. And it's based on racism,
it's based on tribes being an inferior people's they not be
civilized. And, and so here we are, so help,
help direct me into another in here. Well, that's a.
Fascinating thing.
The idea that the United States government is they they're like the big
daddy yeah. To look over the tribes.
And the only way the tribes can exist is if they exist the European.
Way. Right. The great white father. Yeah. Mm-hmm <affirmative>.
And so all this was happening, uh,
while they were trying to conquer the west.
So all this was happening around the gold rush time.
Uh, this was happening before then. So this was happening in the 18,
when was rush, the gold rush was 1850s. Okay.
18 49, 18. So this was a little bit before.
That. And then they were, they're trying to,
they basically trying to take over land, right?
Oh, absolutely. Absolutely. So Georgia wanted that land for themselves.
They wanted to remove the Cherokee and of course the other, um,
quote unquote civilized tribes that were in the Southeast at that time.
And that's, what's so interesting is because you see throughout time, um,
and this is a, this is a little bit why I have a problem with, um, uh,
some of the books that you've read is because they've taken, uh,
small pictures of what was going on and kind of removed the
context of what was really happening.
There were so many tribes across the United States that
tried everything to resist or,
or assimilate so that they could maintain their way of life,
maintain their lands and, um, continue to prosper as they had been.
Um, but the United States was, um, obviously for a formidable opponent.
And regardless of, of, of for example,
the five ice tribes and their, their,
their tactic was to assimilate was to go to school and
educate themselves and learn English. And even though they did that,
and they did everything that the United States wanted them to do,
they were forced off their land, um, to the west, uh, into Indian territory,
the she, who, who you've learned about through, uh,
the book they, that those events happened during a point in time.
And that was their effort at resistance. They saw how disease wiped out,
um, their brethren from other nations. They knew that, uh,
folks were coming to get them. And so that was their way of resisting,
um, uh, being assimilated and having everything taken away from them.
And the defense of the authors of those books, they did cover a lot of that.
These books are in no way, uh, taking the side of the United States government,
you know, most of, I mean,
the most amazing thing about empire the summer moon was just
how special,
the relationship that the command she's had to the land mm-hmm <affirmative>.
And about how, when, um,
Jeff scan parkers is that no, Cynthia, the Anne Parker who's, uh,
she's the photo out there, right. Of the woman that's breastfeeding her child.
Right.
She was kidnapped when she was nine and assimilated with the command shes and
then was re kidnapped by the United go United States government when she was in
her thirties mm-hmm <affirmative> and didn't want go back. Right.
She missed the command,
she life and through her and through her and
her descriptions of the way they lived and the understanding of it,
they got a better sense of like what she missed about that life and that mm-hmm
<affirmative> they had an incredible relationship with the land.
They lived basically just in tepes. They were very nomadic.
They just followed around the Buffalo mm-hmm <affirmative> and they had,
you know, in, in her way of looking at it,
almost a magical in comparison to this
really boring life that these settlers had. And when,
you know, she looked at it,
it was interesting because she was a girl who was born, um,
you know, a, how would you describe it? A white settler.
And then from the age of nine on lived as a Manche.
So she had like, sort of a view of both worlds mm-hmm <affirmative> and,
you know, she very much took the side of the Manches and she wanted to go back,
like she had spoken command sheet in the book.
There's an encounter where they bring in someone who was a Manche
to speak to her and grabs him. She's like, take me back. We're gonna leave.
Let's get outta here now. Mm-hmm <affirmative> like her thought was like,
we gotta get outta here. Like this way of life is. Like,
I want to go back to the command chiefs.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> she just didn't understand that that way of life was slowly
going away. And her son qu Parker,
who is that photograph over there, that's on bullets, said somebody made for me,
I don't even know where that came from. Somebody sent me that,
but that he was the last command chief. Uh, and they, by the,
during her lifetime and her son's lifetime was the last of it.
And it's a very sad story. And it's, but you know.
The Manchi still lived today, right?
Sure. In Oklahoma. Right. There's quite a few of them.
I've actually been in contact with some of those guys. Oh, that's awesome. Yes,
it's very cool. Um, but they do, but they don't live the way they did. Right.
I mean, their way of life was removed. I mean, they were wiped out.